Gobby
=====

Blocker:

Critical:

Major:
  * High CPU load while writing (#45)
  * Bug: High load (and blocking X11) when opening big text file (#48)

Normal:
  * Chat command infrastructure (#31)
  * Recognise command line parameters (#33)
  * Allow opening files as unowned text (#52)
  * Show the cursors and selections of all participants (#53)
  * Documentation (#54)
  * Encoding should be preserved (#65)
  * color change for indicating activity of a document not upfront (#66)
  * automatic scroll if the end of a document is looked at (#70)

Minor:

Trivial:

Enhancement:


45: High CPU load while writing
-------------------------------
If I connect 2 Gobby's on localhost to each other, I see 100% CPU usage 
while writing fast (in fact, punching onto the keys). This looks like a 
severe issue in either the design or implementation to me.

Can be reproduced on Windows and FreeBSD.

48: Bug: High load (and blocking X11) when opening big text file
----------------------------------------------------------------
Opening a 6.7MB large ChangeLog file in gobby produces 100% load and blocks 
gobby completely. Even other windows, like a ssh screen session in an aterm 
did not respond any more. Gobby had to be killed to get the screen session 
working again.

31: Chat command infrastructure
-------------------------------
In order to get the chat more alike to other chats available in the wild 
(like IRC) there should be some commands provider the user might be used 
to, like e.g. /me. Once this framework is implemented in ''Gobby'' it 
should be easy to add new commands.

33: Recognise command line parameters
-------------------------------------
Command line parameters should be parsed and processed. Especially it would 
be nice if Gobby accepted one or more files in it to open it in the 
currently active Gobby session (to use ''Open With'' in your favourite 
desktop environment). However this will get complicated when more than one 
Gobby is open.

52: Allow opening files as unowned text
---------------------------------------
I think that the default way to open a file should be to open in as 
unhilighted/unowned text, so that changes made to the file are more 
visible.

Possibly there could be something like an "Open file as unhilighted/unowned 
text" checkbox in the open dialog for this?  (Not sure quite how to word 
that to be most understandable by end-user types...)

53: Show the cursors and selections of all participants
-------------------------------------------------------
I think that being able to see the cursors and selections of all the 
participants would help me get a sense for where the other participants 
are, and what they're doing.  I think this would make collaboration a 
little bit easier and more comfortable.

Also, once gobby knows where everyone else is, I think it would be great to 
be able to click on someone's name in the Name List to jump their 
cursor/selection into view.

54: Documentation
-----------------
Gobby should get a normal manual just like other projects. Docbook format 
is preferred. There should be a short introduction with an overview about 
Gobby, an installation guide, some basics about the usage and some 
documentation about the algorithms used.

65: Encoding should be preserved
--------------------------------
The incoming encoding from what it is converted should be saved internally 
on the host which opened them, so that the save function results in a file 
with the original one.

66: color change for indicating activity of a document not upfront
------------------------------------------------------------------
Several document windows is a standard on tings. At least a _talk for the 
talk and a _document page for the summary / the condensed wisdom. In 
moon-edit I used to open two windows, a third of the scree above for for 
_document, two thirds of the screen below for the talk. I wonder if in 
gobby one couldn't die the Reiter (?) above telling the document's name in 
the color of the person last editing this document. Like that you could see 
who is editing a document and if it's active without having it upfront. 
Active documents with several people writing on it would change the color 
pretty fast. If someone alone is editing the document maybe there should be 
a blinking dot on it or so. 

70: automatic scroll if the end of a document is looked at
----------------------------------------------------------
Someone writes new text (usually at the end of the page), but as you don't 
try to scroll all the time you do not realize this. Instead you rest where 
the end of the page was and do not get that new text is added to it. So: If 
the page is scrolled to the end and new lines are added there it should 
automatically scroll down. If you are further up and looking or working on 
something else it shouldn't do so.

